---
layout: post
title: "lldb使用"
description: "lldb的使用"
category: 技术
tags: [xcode, lldb, iOS]
excerpt: "使用LLDB调试工具，可以去 The LLDB Debugger 查看命令。"

---
{% include JB/setup %}

##lldb

使用LLDB调试工具，可以去[The LLDB Debugger](http://lldb.llvm.org/lldb-gdb.html)查看命令。

`let newData = NSData(data:utf8EncodeData)`

用`lldb`打印它的信息：

	(lldb) fr v -R newData
	(Foundation.NSData) newData = 0x0b2254a0 {
		ObjectiveC.NSObject = {}
	}
	
`fr v`: 查看当前状态下的变量状态.

lldb的使用方法如下，可以通过`help <command>`来查看对应命令的使用说明：

	(lldb) help fr
	
The following subcommands are supported:

    info     -- List information about the currently selected frame in the
                current thread.
    select   -- Select a frame by index from within the current thread and make
                it the current frame.
    variable -- Show frame variables. All argument and local variables that are
                in scope will be shown when no arguments are given. If any
                arguments are specified, they can be names of argument, local,
                file static and file global variables. Children of aggregate
                variables can be specified such as 'var->child.x'.

使用`help <command> <subcommand>`可以查看子命令的帮助信息。

	(lldb) help fr v

   Show frame variables. All argument and local variables that are in scope
   will be shown when no arguments are given. If any arguments are specified,
   they can be names of argument, local, file static and file global variables.
   Children of aggregate variables can be specified such as 'var->child.x'.

Syntax: frame variable <cmd-options> [<variable-name> [<variable-name> [...]]]

Command Options Usage:
  frame variable [-AFLORTacglrs] [-y <name>] [-z <name>] [-f <format>] [-G <gdb-format>] [-d <none>] [-S <boolean>] [-D <count>] [-P <count>] [-Y[<count>]] [<variable-name> [<variable-name> [...]]]

       -A ( --show-all-children )
            Ignore the upper bound on the number of children to show.

       -D <count> ( --depth <count> )
            Set the max recurse depth when dumping aggregate types (default is
            infinity).

       -F ( --flat )
            Display results in a flat format that uses expression paths for
            each variable or member.

       -G <gdb-format> ( --gdb-format <gdb-format> )
            Specify a format using a GDB format specifier string.

       -L ( --location )
            Show variable location information.

       -O ( --object-description )
            Print as an Objective-C object.

       -P <count> ( --ptr-depth <count> )
            The number of pointers to be traversed when dumping values (default
            is zero).

       -R ( --raw-output )
            Don't use formatting options.

       -S <boolean> ( --synthetic-type <boolean> )
            Show the object obeying its synthetic provider, if available.

       -T ( --show-types )
            Show variable types when dumping values.

       -Y[<count>] ( --no-summary-depth=[<count>] )
            Set the depth at which omitting summary information stops (default
            is 1).

       -a ( --no-args )
            Omit function arguments.

       -c ( --show-declaration )
            Show variable declaration information (source file and line where
            the variable was declared).

       -d <none> ( --dynamic-type <none> )
            Show the object as its full dynamic type, not its static type, if
            available.
            Values: no-dynamic-values | run-target | no-run-target

       -f <format> ( --format <format> )
            Specify a format to be used for display.

       -g ( --show-globals )
            Show the current frame source file global and static variables.

       -l ( --no-locals )
            Omit local variables.

       -r ( --regex )
            The <variable-name> argument for name lookups are regular
            expressions.

       -s ( --scope )
            Show variable scope (argument, local, global, static).

       -y <name> ( --summary <name> )
            Specify the summary that the variable output should use.

       -z <name> ( --summary-string <name> )
            Specify a summary string to use to format the variable output.
   
This command takes options and free-form arguments.  If your arguments
   resemble option specifiers (i.e., they start with a - or --), you must use '
   -- ' between the end of the command options and the beginning of the
   arguments.